
Introduction: This final project is on the Mississippi River's estimated annual sediment deposition into the Gulf of Mexico. In the project, data analysis will be done using python coding to estimate annual sediment flux from the Mississippi river into the Gulf of Mexico with data taken at the USGS Baton Rouge monitoring station, which is the last USGS station before the Gulf of Mexico. Statistical analyses will be done to explore the discharge, sediment fluxes, sediment transport, and seasonality of the data. This project has applicability to the world outside of just python, that being the coastline of of Louisiana and surrounding states in the Gulf of Mexico. The deposition and reworking of sediments is crucial in preserving the shoreline from erosional processes (high-energy beach environments, storm-surge, precipitation/storm outwash, etc.). The artifical levees of the Mississippi have helped to prevent flooding events along the Mississppi River, but have in return disconnected the natural processes of floodplains. The nearby floodplains and coasts have been decreasing in surface area and elevation due to the levees disrupting sediment deposition. This has caused large scale water inundation coupled with sea level rise and landward elevation fall. The Mississippi river has been anthropogenically imapcted by more than just by the leeves, it has intermittent dams along its continuum. The dams effect the river's veolcity, discharge (locks), and sediment transport. Therefore, the natural processes of the river have been changed overtime and studying the sediment deposition has improtant links to the ecosystem, natural habitats, coastline, and anthropogenic factors.
